MTM-53510 Tour through the Cockpit (#1157)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/tour-cockpit/tour.md

---
weight: 10
title: Touring the Cockpit
layout: bundle
section:
  - getting_started
---

Welcome to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit tour. This quick tour helps you to get started with taking your first steps into the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} world.

<a name="home"></a>
### Home dashboard

When you log into your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant you are greeted with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit Home dashboard. The Home dashboard of the Cockpit application is a dashboard which shows data for the general tenant.

![Home dashboard](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-home-screen.png)

The data shown on the Home dashboard is shared by all users of the tenant. By default, the Home dashboard includes a welcome message, the active critical alarms, recent alarms and a map of all objects.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> For performance reasons, the map on the Home dashboard displays icons for maximum 100 devices. If there are more devices they will not be shown in the map. To see them, you must go to the dashboard on group level, and add the "Map" widget there to only see devices from this particular group, see [Widgets collection](#widgets-collection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For performance reasons, the map on the Home dashboard displays icons for a maximum of 100 devices. If there are more devices they are not shown in the map. To see them, you must go to the dashboard on group level, and add the "Map" widget there to only see devices from this particular group, see [Widgets collection](#widgets-collection).
```

obsolete suggestion if the admon box is removed as suggested

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

You can edit and individually design the Home dashboard according to your needs, for example, by adding, removing or changing the widgets being displayed here.

For details on editing a dashboard, refer to [Working with dashboards](#dashboards).

To reset the Home dashboard to its original content, click **More...** at the right of the top menu bar and then click **Restore dashboard**.

### Navigator

The navigator on the left side is your main access to the different functionalities of the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit. From here you can access:

* The Home dashboard.
* The **Groups** menu, to sort your assets and devices into different groups.
* The **Alarms** menu, to keep a pulse on your devices and access your alarms in one place.

> * The **Data explorer**, to visualize the data points, and measurements or to get the sensor data access across your devices and assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The **Data explorer**, to visualize data points and measurements or to get sensor data access across your devices and assets.
```

* The **Reports** menu, to keep you informed by exporting and sharing reports on your assets and devices.
* The **Configuration** menu, to view and update your data point library and smart alarms.

Each menu contains the main screen elements described in [Quick start for users > UI functionalities and features > Main screen elements](/getting-started/gui-features/#screen) in the *Getting started* section.

### Application switcher

To navigate between the different {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications, use the application switcher. From here you can go to device management, analytics, the cloud,  your admin center and many more applications. When you click the application switcher icon, it shows all your subscribed applications.

<img src="/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-application-switcher.png" alt="Application switcher" style="max-width: 100%">

### Connecting devices

> The quickest way to get started with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit application is with the  {{< sensor-app >}}. The {{< sensor-app >}} allows you to view and analyze, for example, your smartphone's sensor data or any other data of a device you connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quickest way to get started with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit application is with the {{< sensor-app >}}. The {{< sensor-app >}} allows you to view and analyze, for example, your smartphone's sensor data or any other data of a device you connect.
```

For more information see [Sensor App](guides/sensor-app) in the *Device management* section.

### Creating a personalized device dashboard

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} allows you to create individualized dashboards for all your devices.

These dashboards give you the opportunity to:

- Visualize live data, alarms, events and trigger remote actions from your devices.
- Provide visibility of important data.

> - Allow for insight in key performance indicators for your company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gain insight in key performance indicators of your company.
```
not 100% sure on the preposition, but KPI are usually defined by the company

> - Shut of your devices remotely in case of anomalies or unwanted behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Shut off your devices remotely in case of anomalies or unwanted behavior.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
{{< product-c8y-iot >}} automatically creates a dashboard for each device.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> To create an individualized dashboard for a device, select the desired device in the **Groups** menu. Click the plus icon on the top to open the **Add dashboard** window. here customize the information according to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an individualized dashboard for a device, select the desired device in the **Groups** menu. Click the plus icon on the top to open the **Add dashboard** window. Customize the information according to your needs.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
You can apply a dashboard to all devices of a device type, if you need more dashboards with the same information.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Once you created your dashboard you can add widgets to it in order to display more detailed data. Click **Add widget** to select the different widgets you need for your dashboard. You can customize the information shown in the widget as needed.
For more information on the different widgets see [Cockpit > Widgets collection](/guides/cockpit/widgets-collection) in the *Application development & solutions enablement* section.

> Once you selected and customized the widget, click **Save** to add the widget to your dashboard. Repeat this process with any widget you need for your device.

Reviewer: 3x "need" throughout the the lines above - while not wrong, maybe we can get rid of one/some?

### Configuring the Cockpit application

The **Configuration** menu contains the following menus:

* **Exports**
* **Data point library**
* **Global smart rules**

#### Exports

The export functionality lets you export specific data to files. In each export, you can specify the output file type (Excel or CSV), schedule the export and specify the target email address(es), and optionally select filters for specific devices, time ranges or fields.

To add an export to your dashboard follow the steps described in [Cockpit > Managing exports > To add an export](/guides/cockpit/exports/#add-export) in the *Application development & solutions enablement* section.

#### Data point library

The data point library provides a collection of data points with default values for data point properties, which serve as templates that can be easily applied to your data points from different devices.

In order to add a new data point template, see [Cockpit > Data point library > To add a data point to the library](/guides/cockpit/data-point-library/) in the *Application development & solutions enablement* section for more information.

#### Global smart rules

> Smart rules are a useful means to analyze data in realtime and to perform actions based on data. Global smart rules apply to a global context (in contrast to local ones for specific groups or devices).

Reviewer: "based on data" - is it the same data that was analyzed in realtime? then i'd suggestion "the data" or "said data"

This includes (among others):

* The home dashboard
* **Exports**
* **Data point library**
* **Global smart rules**

For more information on configuring these parts, see [Configuring Cockpit application > ](/guides/cockpit/cp-configuration/#config-cockpit)

### Application switcher

To navigate between the different {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications, use the application switcher at the top right. From here you can go to the Device management application, the Administration application, and all other subscribed applications.

<img src="/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-application-switcher.png" alt="Application switcher" style="max-width: 100%">

### Connecting devices

To get started with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit application you must first register your device. The quickest way to do so is to register a smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}. After you registered the smartphone, you can view and analyze your smartphone's data, for example, your sensor data or any other data of a device you connect.

For more information see [Sensor App](guides/sensor-app) in the *Device management* section.

### Creating smart rules

> Smart rules enable you to define and automate actions based on real-time data and events. It allows you to create logical conditions and triggers that activate specific actions or workflows when certain events or conditions occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Smart rules enable you to define and automate actions based on real-time data and events. They allow you to create logical conditions and triggers that activate specific actions or workflows when certain events or conditions occur.
```

events happen
conditions are met

is "occur" a good generalization? :thinking:

---
weight: 10
title: Touring the Cockpit
layout: bundle
section:
  - getting_started
---

Welcome to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit tour. This quick tour helps you to get started with taking your first steps into the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} world.

<a name="home"></a>
### Home dashboard

When you log into your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant you are greeted with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit Home dashboard. The Home dashboard of the Cockpit application is a dashboard which shows data for the general tenant.

![Home dashboard](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-home-screen.png)

> It shows a number of pre-installed widgets that give you an introduction to the different options how to individualize your home dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It shows a number of pre-installed widgets that give you an introduction to the different options for individualizing your home dashboard.
```
soft suggestion

At the top you see the **Welcome to Cockpit** widget, which works as an entryway to the most important functions of the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit, such as connecting and registering devices, adding groups, reports and exports as well as smart rules.

Below this widget you find a number of other widgets like the **Map** widget or an **Alarms** widget.

All widgets can be changed to fit your needs. For more information on the different widgets available see the [Widgets collection](/guides/cockpit/widgets-collection).

In the top right of the Home dashboard, you see a number of different buttons. Here you can add a widget or edit the existing widgets. Furthermore, you can expand the screen to full view using the **Full screen** icon.
The **Lock/Unlock** toggle allows you to lock the dashboard. Locking the dashboard stops the user from editing the individual widgets displayed in the Cockpit. To lock the dashboard, click the toggle. You see a notification at the top right confirming the action. To unlock the dashboard once more, click the toggle again.

> If you want to undo any changes to your Home dashboard, use the **Reset dashboard** icon. This reverts all changes to the dashboard and returns it to the initial state.

Reviewer: "any" vs" all" - it reads like the user only has the option to remove all changes, not pick which changes are to be undone

At the very top right you can find additional information about working with dashboards. Click the question mark icon to display the **Working with Dashboards** dialog window.

### Navigator

The navigator on the left side is your main access to the different functionalities of the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit. From here you can access:

* The **Home** dashboard.

> * The **Groups** menu, to sort your assets and devices into different groups.

Reviewer 2: Better use hyphens here instead of a comma?

* The **Alarms** menu, to keep a pulse on your devices and access your alarms in one place.
* The **Data explorer**, to visualize data points and measurements or to get sensor data access across your devices and assets.
* The **Reports** menu, to keep you informed by exporting and sharing reports on your assets and devices.
* The **Configuration** menu, to view and update your data point library and smart alarms.

> For details on all screen elements refer to [Quick start for users > UI functionalities and features > Main screen elements](/getting-started/gui-features/#screen).

Reviewer 2: Not sure why this is here?

> ### Configuring the Cockpit

Reviewer 2: Should probably be moved to the configuration chapter?

You can configure the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit application according to your individual needs.

This includes (among others):

> * The home dashboard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Home dashboard
```

> * **Exports**

Reviewer 2: Why is this formatted bold?

* **Data point library**
* **Global smart rules**

For more information on configuring these parts, see [Configuring Cockpit application > ](/guides/cockpit/cp-configuration/#config-cockpit)

### Application switcher

To navigate between the different {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications, use the application switcher at the top right. From here you can go to the Device management application, the Administration application, and all other subscribed applications.

<img src="/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-application-switcher.png" alt="Application switcher" style="max-width: 100%">

### Connecting devices

To get started with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit application you must first register your device. The quickest way to do so is to register a smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}. After you registered the smartphone, you can view and analyze your smartphone's data, for example, your sensor data or any other data of a device you connect.

> For more information see [Sensor App](guides/sensor-app) in the *Device management* section.

Reviewer: maybe the link could be moved to the first mention of the sensor app, which might make the 2nd paragraph here obsolete

### Creating smart rules

Smart rules enable you to define and automate actions based on real-time data and events. It allows you to create logical conditions and triggers that activate specific actions or workflows when certain events or conditions occur.

> They are used to monitor, analyze, and respond to data coming from various devices connected to the platform. They provide a way to implement business logic and automate processes without requiring manual intervention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are used to monitor, analyze, and respond to data coming from various devices connected to the platform. They provide a way of implementing business logic and automating processes without requiring manual intervention.
```

* The **Home** dashboard.
* The **Groups** menu, to sort your assets and devices into different groups.
* The **Alarms** menu, to keep a pulse on your devices and access your alarms in one place.
* The **Data explorer**, to visualize data points and measurements or to get sensor data access across your devices and assets.
* The **Reports** menu, to keep you informed by exporting and sharing reports on your assets and devices.
* The **Configuration** menu, to view and update your data point library and smart alarms.

For details on all screen elements refer to [Quick start for users > UI functionalities and features > Main screen elements](/getting-started/gui-features/#screen).

### Application switcher

To navigate between the different {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications, use the application switcher at the top right. From here you can go to the Device management application, the Administration application, and all other subscribed applications.

<img src="/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-application-switcher.png" alt="Application switcher" style="max-width: 100%">

### Connecting devices

> To get started with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit application you must first register your device. The quickest way to do so is to register a smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}. After you registered the smartphone, you can view and analyze your smartphone's data, for example, your the sensor data or any other data of a device you connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Cockpit application you must first register your device. The quickest way to do so is to register a smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}. After you registered the smartphone, you can view and analyze your smartphone's data, for example, your sensor data or any other data of a device you connect.
```
